[Generic Database Connector] Added documentation for PostgreSQL in developing.md (#549)
elastic/connectors-python: docs/DEVELOPING.md

## Google Cloud Storage Connector

> The [Elastic Google Cloud Storage connector](https://github.com/elastic/connectors-python/blob/8.7/connectors/sources/google_cloud_storage.py) is provided in the Elastic connectors python framework and can be used via [build a connector](https://www.elastic.co/guide/en/enterprise-search/current/build-connector.html).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The [Elastic Google Cloud Storage connector](../connectors/sources/google_cloud_storage.py) is provided in the Elastic connectors python framework and can be used via [build a connector](https://www.elastic.co/guide/en/enterprise-search/current/build-connector.html).
```

Author: Since we had a discussion with @danajuratoni we decided to point `Network Drive` and `Amazon S3` to `8.6` branch and now `GCS`, `ABS`, and `Generic Database` are part of 8.7 release we pointing to `8.7` branch

Reviewer 2: @wangch079 ideally the users on the 8.7 branch should not leave it when clicking through documentation and the documentation should be moved to elastic.co in about 1 release after the connector client is finished.
Does your proposed change let the users keep the selected branch when clicking links?

Reviewer: >ideally the users on the 8.7 branch should not leave it when clicking through documentation

The markdown now contains links to `8.6` and `8.7` branches. E.g. In `8.7`:

https://github.com/elastic/connectors-python/blob/f41c8a1ec50dd7d749b4b1c333a006697ea4c8cf/docs/DEVELOPING.md?plain=1#L5

>Does your proposed change let the users keep the selected branch when clicking links?

Yes. Making the proposed change will keep the users in the selected branch.

Reviewer 2: If `../connectors/sources/` keeps users in the selected branch, I'm good to use this for all our links!

Author: Updated with relative links, and we will raise PR for other connectors soon.

##### `service_account_credentials`

> The service account credentials generated from Google Cloud Storage.  Default value is [here](https://github.com/elastic/connectors-python/blob/8.7/connectors/sources/google_cloud_storage.py#L103)

Reviewer: This may point to a different line because you are using a branch not a specific commit.

Reviewer 3: Good point. Maybe it's better to link to the file and mention the function name, where the user can <kbd>command</kbd> + <kbd>F</kbd> rather than linking to specific line numbers which will vary.

Author: Currently, I have removed the `google cloud storage` and `Azure Blob Storage` changes from this PR. We will raise follow up PR for all connectors

ℹ️ The e2e test uses default values defined in [configure Azure Blob Storage connector](#configure-azure-blob-storage-connector)

## PostgreSQL Connector

> The [Elastic PostgreSQL connector](https://github.com/elastic/connectors-python/blob/8.7/connectors/sources/postgresql.py) is provided in the Elastic connectors python framework and can be used via [build a connector](https://www.elastic.co/guide/en/enterprise-search/current/build-connector.html).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The [Elastic PostgreSQL connector](../connectors/sources/postgresql.py) is provided in the Elastic connectors python framework and can be used via [build a connector](https://www.elastic.co/guide/en/enterprise-search/current/build-connector.html).
```

> ### Availability and prerequisites

Reviewer 4: For users who are fetching from non-system tables, can we also document the minimum privileges required for the database user for the connector to fetch data from these user tables?

We should also include the versions of PostgreSQL we intend to support.

Author: Added note for privileges. Also, I added versions of PostgreSQL.

⚠️ _Currently, this connector is available in **beta** starting in 8.7_.
Features in beta are subject to change and are not covered by the service level agreement (SLA) of features that have reached general availability (GA).

Elastic versions 8.6.0+ are compatible with Elastic connector frameworks. Your deployment must include the Elasticsearch, Kibana, and Enterprise Search services.

### Setup and basic usage

Complete the following steps to deploy the connector:

1. [Gather PostgreSQL details](#gather-postgresql-details)
2. [Configure PostgreSQL connector](#configure-postgresql-connector)

#### Gather PostgreSQL details

Collect the information that is required to connect to your PostgreSQL server:

- The server host address where the PostgreSQL is hosted.

> - The port where the PostgreSQL server is hosted.

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
- The port on which the PostgreSQL server runs.
```

- The username the connector will use to log in to PostgreSQL.
- The password the connector will use to log in to PostgreSQL.

> - Name of the database.

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
- Name of the database to ingest data from.
```

- SSL certificate if you want to establish secured connections.

> ℹ️ User needs to set `track_commit_timestamp` to `on` using `ALTER SYSTEM SET track_commit_timestamp = on;` query to fetch last updated time.

Reviewer 4: >User needs to set `track_commit_timestamp` to `on` using `ALTER SYSTEM SET track_commit_timestamp = on;` query to fetch last updated time.

I think this is best moved to the pre-requisites section.

Author: move to pre-requisites section

#### Configure PostgreSQL connector

The following configuration fields need to be provided for setting up the connector:

##### `host`

The server host address where the PostgreSQL is hosted. Default value is `127.0.0.1`. Examples:

  - `192.158.1.38`
  - `demo.instance.demo-region.demo.service.com`

##### `port`

> The server port where PostgreSQL service is available. Default value is `9090`. Examples:

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
The server port on which the PostgreSQL server runs on. Default value is `9090`. Examples:
```

> The server port on which the PostgreSQL server runs on. Default value is `9090`. Examples:

Reviewer: When I review other documentation PRs, I noticed this sentence is described different. I don't have strong opinions but just make them consistent.

Author: Done

  - `5432`
  - `9090`

##### `user`

The username of the account for PostgreSQL. Default value is `admin`.

##### `password`

The password of the account to be used for the PostgreSQL. Default value is `Password_123`.

##### `database`

> Name of the PostgreSQL database. Default value is `xe`.

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
Name of the PostgreSQL database. Default value is `xe`. Examples:
```

> Name of the PostgreSQL database. Default value is `xe`. Examples:

Reviewer 4: This is a copy and paste error. There's no default `xe` Postgres database, that's the default for Oracle Express Edition 😄 My 2 cents is to have no default for this field but make it required to be set.

Author: We have a configuration list in generic_database.py and `database` parameter is common for all 3 dialects (Postgresql, Oracle, and MS-SQL). To run E2E tests, we need to set one default database in the generic_database file. So, that's why it's common in all documentation PR.

Reviewer 3: It probably makes sense to call out that the default value exists for E2E testing purposes.

Author: Sure added note [here](https://github.com/elastic/connectors-python/pull/549/files#diff-f8ff34865ce88864196f2848aebde961f27a4c1e8ce77313a4254dd948d32cfbR467)

  - `employee_database`
  - `customer_database`

##### `tables`

> Comma-separated list of tables. For * in string connector will fetch data for all the Tables. Default value is `*`. Examples:

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
Comma-separated list of tables. The PostgreSQL connector will fetch data from all tables present in the configured database, if the value is `*` . Default value is `*`. Examples:
```

  - `table_1, table_2`
  - `*`

##### `fetch_size`

> Number of rows to fetch on each call. Default value is `50`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The number of rows to fetch on each call to PostgreSQL. Default value is `50`.
```

Personally, I'd prefer `request` over `call`, that's why I left comments in other Documentation PRs. But I don't hold it strongly.

> The number of rows to fetch on each request to the PostgreSQL. Default value is `50`.

Reviewer 4: It can be helpful to provide some information on the tradeoff of increasing the number of rows fetched and if there's a max value.

Author: Currently, it's not available in any connector documentation and as per previous comments we need to make documentation generic for all connectors. So what do you suggest do we need to add information regarding the tradeoff of increasing the number of rows fetched?

Reviewer 3: Is there a max value?

Author: There is no specific max limit mentioned in the package however for the max limit we can use the max integer value supported by python which is `9223372036854775807` but it's different for a 32-bit CPU.

##### `retry_count`

> The number of retry attempts after failed request to the PostgreSQL. Default value is `3`.

Reviewer 4: It can be helpful to provide some information on the tradeoff of increasing the # of retries and if there's a max # that can be retried or if if there's a setting for no retry limit.

Author: same as [this](https://github.com/elastic/connectors-python/pull/549#discussion_r1127228169)

##### `ssl_disabled`

> SSL verification will be disabled or not. Default value is `True`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Whether SSL verification will be disabled. Default value is `True`.
```

##### `ssl_ca`

> Content of SSL certificate. Default value is `None`.

Reviewer: `None` is the default for the python backend. We shouldn't ask a customer to key in `"None"`.

I guess this field is optional and customers can leave it blank?

### Connector Limitations

> - To fetch last updated time in PostgreSQL, User needs to ensure that the `track_commit_timestamp` is set to `on`. If not, then data will index in every sync.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- To fetch the last updated time in PostgreSQL, `track_commit_timestamp` must be set to `on`. Otherwise, all data will index in every sync.
```

> - To fetch the last updated time in PostgreSQL, `track_commit_timestamp` must be set to `on`. Otherwise, all data will index in every sync.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- To fetch the last updated time in PostgreSQL, `track_commit_timestamp` must be set to `on`. Otherwise, all data will be indexed in every sync.
```

Author: Done

> - Permission are not synced. **All documents** indexed to an Elastic deployment will be visible to all the users having access to that Elastic Deployment.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Permissions are not synced. **All documents** indexed to an Elastic deployment will be visible to **all users with access** to that Elastic Deployment.
```

- Filtering rules are not available in the present version. Currently, the filtering is controlled via ingest pipelines.

### E2E Tests

The framework provides a way to test ingestion through a connector against a real data source. This is called a functional test. To execute a functional test for the PostgreSQL connector, run the following command:
```shell
$ make ftest NAME=postgresql
```

ℹ️ Users do not need to have a running Elasticsearch instance or a PostgreSQL source to run this test. The docker compose file manages the complete setup of the development environment, i.e. both the mock Elastic instance and mock PostgreSQL source using the docker image.

> ℹ️ The e2e test uses default values defined in [configure PostgreSQL connector](#configure-postgresql-connector)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
ℹ️ The e2e test uses default values defined in [Configure PostgreSQL connector](#configure-postgresql-connector)
```

ℹ️ The e2e test uses default values defined in [configure Azure Blob Storage connector](#configure-azure-blob-storage-connector)

## PostgreSQL Connector

The [Elastic PostgreSQL connector](../connectors/sources/postgresql.py) is provided in the Elastic connectors python framework and can be used via [build a connector](https://www.elastic.co/guide/en/enterprise-search/current/build-connector.html).

### Availability and prerequisites

⚠️ _Currently, this connector is available in **beta** starting in 8.7_.
Features in beta are subject to change and are not covered by the service level agreement (SLA) of features that have reached general availability (GA).

Elastic versions 8.6.0+ are compatible with Elastic connector frameworks. Your deployment must include the Elasticsearch, Kibana, and Enterprise Search services.

PostgreSQL versions 11 to 15 are compatible with Elastic connector frameworks.

> **Prerequisite**

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
**Prerequisites**
```

> - PostgreSQL user should hold the ownership of the tables to indexed the data.

Author: Updated the sentence.

- PostgreSQL user needs superuser privilges to index all the tables of the database.

> - User needs to set `track_commit_timestamp` to `on` using `ALTER SYSTEM SET track_commit_timestamp = on;` query to fetch last updated time.

Reviewer 3: Can be clearer and more explicit about where the user sets these configurations.

Author: Updated the sentence.

### Setup and basic usage

Complete the following steps to deploy the connector:

1. [Gather PostgreSQL details](#gather-postgresql-details)
2. [Configure PostgreSQL connector](#configure-postgresql-connector)

#### Gather PostgreSQL details

Collect the information that is required to connect to your PostgreSQL server:

> - The server host address where the PostgreSQL is hosted.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
- The server host address where the PostgreSQL server is hosted.
```

Use "PostgreSQL server" consistently.

- The port where the PostgreSQL is hosted.
- The username the connector will use to log in to the PostgreSQL.
- The password the connector will use to log in to the PostgreSQL.

> - The database name where the connector will query data.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
- The database name the connector will query.
```

> - The port where the PostgreSQL is hosted.
> - The username the connector will use to log in to the PostgreSQL.
> - The password the connector will use to log in to the PostgreSQL.
> - The database name where the connector will query data.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
- The port where the PostgreSQL is hosted.
- The username the connector will use to log in to the PostgreSQL server.
- The password the connector will use to log in to the PostgreSQL server.
- The database name the connector will query.
```

##### `host`

The server host address where the PostgreSQL is hosted. Default value is `127.0.0.1`. Examples:

  - `192.158.1.38`
  - `demo.instance.demo-region.demo.service.com`

##### `port`

The port where the PostgreSQL is hosted. Default value is `9090`. Examples:

  - `5432`
  - `9090`

##### `username`

The username of the account for PostgreSQL. Default value is `admin`.

##### `password`

The password of the account to be used for the PostgreSQL. Default value is `Password_123`.

##### `database`

Name of the PostgreSQL database. Default value is `xe`. Examples:

  - `employee_database`
  - `customer_database`

##### `tables`

Comma-separated list of tables. The PostgreSQL connector will fetch data from all tables present in the configured database, if the value is `*` . Default value is `*`. Examples:

  - `table_1, table_2`
  - `*`

##### `fetch_size`

The number of rows to fetch on each request to the PostgreSQL. Default value is `50`.

##### `retry_count`

The number of retry attempts after failed request to the PostgreSQL. Default value is `3`.

##### `ssl_disabled`

Whether SSL verification will be disabled. Default value is `True`.

##### `ssl_ca`

> Content of SSL certificate. Note: In case of ssl_disabled `True`, keep `ssl_ca` field empty. Examples:

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Content of SSL certificate. If SSL is disabled, keep the `ssl_ca` field empty. Example certificate:
```
